Red Hat Foundations
===================

https://training-lms.redhat.com/sso/saml/auth/rhopen?RelayState=deeplinkoffering%3D41559188

Digital Transformation
======================
This course covers: 
what digital transformation is, 
why it’s crucial for businesses, 
what businesses need to do, 
how open source makes it possible, 
why Red Hat is the best choice for helping businesses with their digital transformation journey, and how we do it.

What is digital transformation?  
------------------------------
Generally speaking, digital transformation is the integration of digital technology into all areas of a business, 
fundamentally changing how a business operates and delivers value to its customers.  
However, digital transformation is more than just technology. It encompasses cultural changes, agile processes, 
and next-generation architecture as well as how they’re interconnected.  
It's a cultural change that requires organizations to continually challenge the status quo, experiment, and get 
comfortable with failure.

Different Journey for everyone:
The digital transformation journey is different for everyone, so we need to focus on each customer’s specific needs.
For example, a customer might be facing a disruptive competitor with a new application that’s capturing market share
 and the customer needs to respond with an advanced application. Or perhaps a customer’s existing I.T. costs are too
 high to devote time, money, and resources to transforming the business; so it needs to get its current operations 
 more efficient before turning their efforts to digitally transforming.  
Before we can help them get to where they want to be, we must first figure out through discussion and probing what a
 specific customer wants and needs from an IT challenge standpoint.
 
Requires a Strategy: 
No matter where a business is today, their digital transformation journey requires a strategy that encompasses more 
 than just technology. It needs to prepare their people and processes in addition to transforming I.T.  
 In other words, to be successful, digital transformation requires business acumen combined with future-proof use of
 technology. This is where a knowledgeable partner like Red Hat can add value and help a business on its digital 
 transformation journey.
 
why it’s crucial for businesses?
-------------------------------
The business world is rapidly changing. That’s nothing new; businesses have always been changing and innovating. 
However, the rate at which those changes are taking place is accelerating, and those changes are becoming more dramatic.
Many businesses are finding themselves unprepared, and this is driving the need for businesses to adopt a new digital mindset.  
Some causes for this disruption include: 
- The widespread adoption and use of technology 
- Competitors delivering faster and better at lower costs 
- Changing customer behavior, demands, and higher expectations 
- Rapid innovation and invention.

To succeed, companies must fundamentally change the way they do business to adapt to a world characterized by what 
the World Economic Forum describes as the fourth industrial revolution: hyperconnectivity.  As technology advances
and more and more people are using it, I.T. operations are becoming more relevant, and are faced with new challenges.  

Disruption comes not only from technology itself, but also from how it’s being applied as well as the operating models
behind the technology or the business using it.  For example, a competitor may be doing the same task faster, better,
and at a lower cost only because it digitally transformed. This makes it imperative for a business to shift and make
continuous, iterative changes--in other words, it must digitally transform to remain competitive.  

Higher expectations from customers and users are making digital transformation even more essential to remaining 
competitive in fast-changing markets.  Businesses that fail to take advantage of digital transformation risk losing 
market share and industry relevance, leading to weaker financial performance and potential failure.  

There is no doubt that digital transformation is also changing the way we use technology and no industry is immune. 
Around the world, companies face an influx of new competitors and new business models.  Digital transformation 
efforts already in play in many industries are remapping the business landscape. For example, Uber has already 
disrupted the transportation industry. Companies like Amazon and Alibaba have altered existing business models in 
the retail market.

what businesses need to do,
-------------------------
Assess where they are now
Maintain, Optimize or Innovate
Many organizations are not ready for their digital transformation. It poses many challenges they are unprepared to face. 
But deciding whether to maintain or optimize their current portfolio or innovate, differentiate, and grow is the first 
step to starting their digital transformation journey.  
Whatever decision they make, in order to meet the challenges they need to consider how to: 
- Gain efficiency by optimizing the IT they have - IT Optimization
- Improve productivity by integrating apps, data, and processes - Agile intergration
- Increase agility by adding and managing cloud infrastructure - Hybrid cloud infrastructure
- Move faster by building more modern applications - Cloud-native app dev
- Achieve Scale by building a scalable management and automation platform - IT automation + management

Determine where they want to be
Before developing a strategy, businesses first need to determine where they are on their digital journey.  
Are they adopting next generation technology to transform?  
Are they accelerating transformation to become a leader?  
Are they continuously innovating to stay a leader?

Look at how others are doing it

how open source makes it possible
---------------------------------
Better solutions:
Demands for efficiency, agility, and innovation require organizations to always look for new technologies. 
Open source plays a part in both generating demand and making better solutions possible.  
Open source can make better digital transformation solutions possible because: 
- Collaboration fosters innovation 
- Shared problems are solved faster 
- Working together creates necessary standardization 
- Transparency creates access and the ability to act

Community powered approach:
Many enterprises that rely on interoperable, flexible, and scalable technologies are already using open source. 
Open source development and culture uses its community-powered approach to drive rapid innovation, making open 
source solutions ideal for meeting digital transformation needs.  
Open organizations participate in communities both inside and outside the organization to: 
- Respond to opportunities more quickly. 
- Improve access to resources & talent for the organization. 
- Inspire, motivate, and empower people at all levels to act with accountability.

why RedHat
-----------
Open source communities are very good at what they do-rapid iteration, innovation, collaboration, and 
addressing common problems with the power of community. But businesses have some needs that communities
do not--and should not--have to address. This is where Red Hat steps in.  
We help organizations interact with the open source technologies they need--getting changes and requests 
upstream. We are trusted by the communities that cultivate innovation; they know we will not stifle or hoard 
it, because by sharing, we can make it even better.  
- We refine community software by performing QA. and integration tasks, and standardizing user interfaces.  
- We ensure that open source technologies delivered to our customers remain secure over the lifecycle of the product.  
- We offer the innovation of community software with the stability of an enterprise life cycle and technical support.

- User interfaces
- QA and integration
- Getting changes accepted upstream
- Predictable, stable lifecycle management
- Secure value chain
- Support

The RedHat difference
- Open source leadership
- Strength in Linux
- Comprehensive portfolio
- Hybrid Cloud
- Our people and culture

How do we help customers on their digital transformation journey?
--------------------------
Starting the conversation:
In order to help companies achieve success in a digital world, we must pivot from product-led conversations to 
business-value driven conversations. We need to focus our effort on achieving a customer-centric viewpoint that 
applies technology in ways which best serve our customers. We need to identify where they are today and more 
importantly, where they want to be tomorrow. By doing this, we can provide highly individualized services and 
even anticipate customer needs based on their behavior patterns.

Asking the right questions:
Getting the right information requires asking the right questions. Even though not all conversations will be 
centered specifically on digital transformation, here are some questions to help you get started.  
- What disruptive competitive threats are you facing? 
- What would you do differently if you were the disruptor? 
- What new competition are you seeing from non-traditional market players? 
- What new entrants are there into your market? 
- In what ways are you looking to establish competitive differentiation through digital services? 
- How ready is your organization to take advantage of digital opportunities? 
	- How are you preparing your people? 
	- How are your processes changing? 
	- How are you preparing your technology or infrastructure to take advantage of digital opportunities?

Things to listen for:
Here are some of the things to listen for in a customer's response: 
We have this new competitor… 
The business is really being pushed right now by the competition. 
Our management is asking us how we are going to respond to the competition. 
Our customers are demanding… 
Our industry is changing so rapidly right now. 
The market we are in seems to be shifting in a new direction.

Subscriptions
=============
Red Hat subscription model delivers features and benefits that customers cannot get under the traditional licensing model. 

Subscriptions vs Licenses
--------------------
There are three fundamental differences between Red Hat's subscription model and the traditional licensing models.
1. Comprehensive: a Red Hat subscription provides everything a customer needs. With a subscription, customers can operate 
 Red Hat's enterprise-ready, open source technology in their environment, with no incremental maintenance costs or fees.  
  Licensing models often have expensive and unpredictable additions to software costs, such as user access licenses,
 per-incident support fees, and version upgrade charges. 
2. Spread-out cost: With a subscription, cost is spread across the term of the subscription. During this term, the customer has access
 to unlimited upgrades, as well as access to support services and content.  
  Under a proprietary licensing model, your customer can expect the cost of the software to be concentrated at the 
 beginning of the licensing period.  
3. 24x7 support: Red Hat’s subscription model provides options for support 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and not just for when things break. 
  In the licensing model, support is generally provided on a break-fix basis. 

Value of a RedHat Subscription
-----------------------
With Red Hat subscriptions, your customers can count on three high-level values: technology, assurance, and expertise.   

On the technology front, a Red Hat subscription gives your customers access to enterprise-ready software, updates and 
security patches, and information and support services that span their entire application infrastructure, life cycle, 
and architecture.   
Red Hat also provides assurance by maintaining relationships with thousands of vendors and service providers to certify 
their technologies in your customers’ Red Hat environment. Multivendor support gives customers a single source to trust 
when it comes to keeping your business running.  
Finally, technical expertise is a key aspect of Red Hat’s customer engagement philosophy. Through discussions, articles, 
documentation, and other knowledge content available in the Red Hat Customer Portal, partners and customers have access 
to all the expertise that our engineers have to offer.

value proposition
----------------
A Red Hat subscription is more cost-effective than a traditional software license, and it provides greater value.   

- A subscription covers engineering support and customer support, maintenance, lifecycle updates, upgrades, 
 security patches, and access to the support portal. It covers a general life of Red Hat’s technology for 10 years, 
 from shipment of the first major release.  
- For Red Hat partners, there is an additional, very attractive value to our subscription model. Red Hat subscriptions 
 provide partners with a predictable revenue stream, a high percentage of renewals, and the opportunity to cross-sell. 
- Currently an estimated 90 percent of our subscriptions renew, and a large percentage of customers purchase additional 
 Red Hat technologies during their renewal.   
- The Red Hat subscription model also provides an advantage as the public cloud attracts enterprise customers. Red Hat 
 pivoted its existing business model to include a pay-as-you-go option for major public clouds, such as AWS and 
 Microsoft Azure. The pay-as-you-go option also exists for managed service providers that drive revenue by managing 
 their customers’ infrastructure.   
- For some of Red Hat’s technologies, customers and partners can even take an existing subscription and port it over to 
 a public cloud environment, when extra scalability is required, without changing the purchase agreement with you or Red Hat.

benefits
---------
- A Red Hat subscription provides ongoing delivery. It helps customers get the latest software faster because a 
subscription includes unlimited access to all updates and upgrades in both binary and source code form.   
- Customers get access to the Red Hat Customer Portal, a single destination that provides integrated access to all the 
features of their subscription. The portal allows subscribers to communicate with Red Hat, keep track of the number and 
location of their subscriptions, submit and track support tickets and feature requests, and download software. 
A Red Hat subscription also provides critical security updates to keep your customers' systems stable and secure with 
the latest, extensively tested security patches. These are available through the web-based Customer Portal. 
All these ongoing delivery features provide cost certainty to customers. Once a customer has purchased an appropriate 
subscription for each instance running, there is nothing else to pay and no hidden costs.  
- A subscription also provides the benefits of Red Hat’s certification and testing. Red Hat provides the back-end 
engineering, development, and testing necessary to create an enterprise-ready product. Every subscription supports an 
ecosystem of co-development where Red Hat and partners collaborate to certify hardware, software, and cloud provider solutions. 
This is one of the most important components of the Red Hat model, as it certifies that customers can, in most cases, 
deploy Red Hat solutions on their existing hardware, eliminating the need for hardware upgrades.  
- The next benefit is assurance-customers have the support of Red Hat’s Open Source Assurance program, which is 
designed to protect customers developing and deploying Red Hat open source solutions. The program includes legal 
assurances for customers purchasing certain Red Hat subscriptions, allowing them to continue to use their chosen 
open source solution without interruption.  
- Finally, customers have access to Red Hat’s flexible approach. With Red Hat subscriptions, customers do not have to 
upgrade to the latest version and each release is supported for up to 10 years, depending on the solution. 
Subscriptions are flexible and transferable, allowing customers to upgrade their system hardware with no penalty. 
Subscriptions, with the exception of mainframe, are not version-, architecture-, or system-specific. Customers can 
easily transfer a subscription from old to new hardware, upgrade or downgrade to any supported version of Red Hat 
software, and deploy on physical servers, virtual machines, or in the cloud.   
- No matter what a customer's requirements are for software, lifecycle, hardware, support, and portability, they can 
choose the subscription that is right for their organization.

Enterprise agreement and SEAP (Subscription Education and Awareness Program)
------------------
When customers purchase a Red Hat subscription, they enter into a formal contract called the Red Hat Enterprise 
Agreement, which governs the terms under which Red Hat deliver subscriptions.   
- The Agreement applies any time an active subscription exists within the customer's environment. Specifically, it 
outlines the rights and responsibilities of both Red Hat and the customer.   
- The agreement includes the customer’s right to access the full value of the subscription, including all tested and 
certified software, maintenance, documentation, support, and indemnification. The Enterprise Agreement also outlines 
the customers’ responsibility to maintain one subscription for each resource running Red Hat software.  
- In some instances, customers may not be familiar with their responsibilities under their subscription agreement, 
or they may not be aware of the rapid rate of adoption of Red Hat software. As a result, sometimes there will be non-compliance.  
- The most basic types of non-compliance you will see are non-renewals, over-deployment, third-party support, and 
redistribution without rights.
- If you, as Red Hat partners, spot non-compliance in your customer base, you should bring this to Red Hat’s attention. 
Red Hat will help you convert it to a deal that you retain and get credit for. 
- Red Hat helps customers understand their responsibilities through the Subscription Education and Awareness Program, 
or SEAP. This program assists customers and partners in understanding and adhering to the subscription model. 
- Customers who go through the SEAP process develop a better understanding of the value of their subscriptions, 
which leads to broader adoption and more consistent renewals.
- In addition to the resources offered by SEAP, you can always bring your questions or concerns to your Red Hat account manager.

Renewals
==========

What is RedHat Renewals Program?
--------
- The good news for partners is Red Hat has set up a team to streamline the subscription renewal process. 
This dedicated Red Hat team handles all upfront interactions with your customers.  
- Red Hat’s representatives take the lead on several kinds of customer interactions.  
- The first priority is to maintain subscription records and give customers timely notice about renewal opportunities. 
Red Hat representatives will contact your customers to remind them of upcoming subscription expirations.  
- Second, Red Hat subscriptions come with compliance requirements. Should there be a compliance issue with one of your 
customers, Red Hat will take the lead and help the customer identify and resolve it.  
- A third key role for Red Hat representative is to understand customers’ needs and identify new Red Hat products 
that will bring further productivity to their enterprise.  
- While Red Hat provides these services, our partners retain account control themselves, and are responsible for closing all deals.

Why?
----
The Red Hat subscription model is very different from the traditional software licensing model. 
With traditional models, companies find themselves paying large costs at the outset, with no ability to predict 
future maintenance expenses.  
- Unlike traditional software licensing models, Red Hat’s pay-as-you-go subscriptions have no large upfront fees, and 
the relationship is very different. Companies are able to spread the cost of the technology solution across multiple 
subscription renewals.  
- Everything, including updates and upgrades, is provided in one all-inclusive price. This means more predictable 
expenses, and the cost over the lifespan is often lower.  
- By renewing with Red Hat, your customers will have access to all versions of the product. This means the operating 
system, bug fixes, proactive security updates, source code and documentation, and additional hardware and software certifications.  
- Customers will not want to settle for a single version of a software implementation. By renewing their subscriptions, 
customers gain ongoing access to Red Hat’s proven distributions, which undergo extensive software testing and quality assurance.  
- Renewing subscriptions means renewing support. While it is a good thing if a customer requires little or no product 
support, it is still important to be able to count on having access to a global network of knowledgeable Red Hat support engineers.  
- Finally, renewals entitle customers to the Red Hat Open Source Assurance program, which helps safeguard customers 
developing and deploying open source solutions from legal harm.

Identify renewal opportunities
------------------
Red Hat maintains several subscription tiers, so renewals present an opportunity to educate customers on these options. 
For example, customers can upgrade from Self-support subscriptions or Standard subscriptions to Premium subscriptions.  
- Partners can realize additional revenue by educating customers about Red Hat products such as Red Hat Satellite, 
a systems management solution, consultancy services that the partners can provide, or by pointing out the value of 
moving to a higher subscription base.  
- It is also important to keep Red Hat subscriptions active because of the ongoing need to comply with applicable laws 
and regulations. Red Hat and partners can encourage renewals by educating customers on how subscriptions facilitate 
regulatory and industry compliance.They can also do this by showing customers data around their subscription usage.  
- Through it all, partners always maintain account control. Partners can use the renewal period as an occasion to 
connect with customers. And when partners retain customers through renewals, they have an opportunity to have productive 
conversations about their enterprise needs. This, in turn, means partners can increase customer satisfaction and 
position themselves for follow-on sales or expansion.

Commmon questions
-------------
When you have conversations with customers about renewals, you will have an opportunity to answer their questions, and 
also educate them not only about their subscriptions, but about other Red Hat resources.  

Do all customer systems running Red Hat products require a subscription? 
Red Hat’s business model is a one-for-one concept, meaning that a customer is required to purchase a subscription for 
each instance of Red Hat Enterprise Linux or Red Hat Middleware that is installed, for as long as there are any active 
subscriptions within their organization.  

Can I renew my subscriptions directly? 
Yes. Red Hat understands these are your customers. Red Hat provides a tool to give you the information you need to 
stay on top of your accounts and work productively with the Red Hat Renewals Team.  

I paid for a subscription last year, so why do I need to renew? 
This is a common one. The way Red Hat approaches this objection is to remind customers that they initially purchased 
a 12-month subscription, including access to certified and tested Red Hat software binaries, updates, maintenance, 
and support. Renewing the subscription continues those benefits.  
When customers buy proprietary software, they pay an upfront license fee. Then they pay for maintenance every year 
But by purchasing a Red Hat subscription, they receive continued access to the latest tested and certified solutions 
provided by Red Hat, including full version upgrades (at no additional charge) when they become available.  

How much does it cost to renew? 
For subscription renewal pricing, customers should contact the Red Hat partner from whom they originally purchased 
their Red Hat subscription. Otherwise, they should contact a Red Hat sales representative.  

What is included in my Red Hat Enterprise Linux subscription? 
With an active subscription, customers receive much more than just technical support. 
A Red Hat subscription provides everything they need to help run their systems safely and reliably. 
Access to the latest versions of Red Hat tested software binaries that have been certified by thousands of independent 
software and hardware vendors. Access to software updates, upgrades, security advisories, and bug fixes through the 
Red Hat Customer Portal. Access to telephone and/or web production support. Development support is also available. 
The opportunity to participate in Open Source Assurance, Red Hat’s intellectual property assurance program.  

How do I manage my subscription? 
We make sure customers know that subscriptions are handled through the Red Hat Customer Portal, a web-based systems 
management tool. 
Red Hat Subscription Management (RHSM) is the service which manages the Red Hat subscriptions and entitlements.  
Customers can access their content through RHSM using Red Hat Satellite, Subscription Asset Manager (SAM), and the 
award-winning Customer Portal. Note that RHSM replaced Red Hat Network (RHN) Hosted.  
For other management questions, customers should contact their Red Hat sales representative or Red Hat partner.  

Can I choose to only renew subscriptions for my mission-critical machines? 
No. As long as there are any active subscriptions within the organization, customers must purchase a subscription for 
each instance of Red Hat Enterprise Linux or JBoss Enterprise Middleware in use.  
Red Hat’s solutions create a great deal of value for our customers, whether they use some or all of them on a particular 
system or on many systems. The stability, security, and reliability of Red Hat enterprise solutions are enjoyed 
everywhere they are deployed. Red Hat understands that different machines have different technological and support needs, 
so there is a full range of subscription offerings that users can mix and match within their environment to meet those needs.  

How long does my subscription last? 
We sell subscriptions in one- and three-year terms.  

I have not used maintenance or support. Do I have to renew my subscription? 
Red Hat is always happy to hear that customers have not required technical support.  However, a Red Hat subscription 
provides much more than just technical support. By renewing, our customers ensure that support is available if they 
do need it in the future, but more importantly, a subscription provides continued access to reliable software solutions 
and binaries that are tested, certified, and proven to be stable.  

When I renew, can I change my subscription to include other products, or more or less of what I initially purchased? 
Yes, but if customers maintain any other active subscriptions with Red Hat, they are obligated to purchase a 
subscription for every installed unit.  

I forgot to renew my subscription and it has expired. Can I still renew? 
Yes. To renew a subscription, customers should contact their Red Hat partner or a Red Hat sales representative. 
To find contact information for the Red Hat partner or Red Hat sales representative who is best suited to assist, 
they should refer to the Red Hat subscription renewal guide online.  

If I do not renew, can I continue to use the software? 
Yes, but the customer will no longer receive critical ongoing support, bug fixes, proactive security updates, 
source code and documentation, and any additional hardware and software certifications. 
The customer will lose the benefits that help keep their enterprise systems running smoothly and securely.  
If the customer maintains any other active subscriptions with Red Hat, they are obliged to purchase a subscription 
for every installed unit.  

What do I do once I receive my renewal subscription? 
Customers should go to www.redhat.com and register to activate their subscription. 
They will receive an automatically generated welcome email outlining how they can access their subscription resources.  

Can I choose to have another vendor support Red Hat Enterprise Linux in my environment? 
Yes. Customers are free to purchase additional technical support for their Red Hat Enterprise Linux environment. 
As long as they have active Red Hat subscriptions, they are required to maintain a subscription for each instance of 
Red Hat Enterprise Linux or JBoss Enterprise Middleware. This will not release them from obligations to purchase 
Red Hat subscriptions for the same systems.


Introduction to cloud computing
==============================
Scale up vs  Scale out

On-premises
Software as a service
Platform as a service
Infrastructure as a service



